# Summer Intro to Python Course

![Python Logo](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/c/c3/Python-logo-notext.svg)

## Course Overview

Welcome to the Summer Python Course repository! This comprehensive Intro Python
Programming course is designed to provide students with a solid
foundation in Python programming. Whether you're a beginner or have some
programming experience, this course will equip you with the essential knowledge
and skills to become proficient in Python. 

Throughout the course, you will delve into the core concepts of Python
programming, starting from the basics and gradually progressing to more advanced
topics. With a hands-on approach and practical exercises, you'll gain practical
experience in writing Python code and solving real-world problems. 

The course covers a wide range of fundamental Python topics, including variable
assignment, console output, user input processing, if statements, loops,
functions, data structures, object-oriented programming, file input/output,
error handling, web programming, graphical user interfaces, and open-source code
utilization. 

By the end of this course, you will have a solid understanding of Python's
syntax and semantics, enabling you to write clean, efficient, and scalable code.
You will be equipped with the skills to develop your own applications, work with
various data structures, handle errors gracefully, interact with web APIs,
create graphical user interfaces, and effectively utilize open-source packages. 

Whether you aspire to become a software developer, data analyst, or simply want
to expand your programming skills, this Python Programming Fundamentals course
is an essential stepping stone towards achieving your goals.

## Module Structure

The course repository is structured in a clear and organized manner, ensuring
easy access to learning materials, examples, and practice problems for each
module. Here's a breakdown of how the modules are structured: 

1. Module Structure:
   - Each module is represented by a folder named after the module's topic.
   - Inside the module folder, you'll find a file called `learning_material.md`
     that contains links to all the recommended learning materials and
     additional resources related to that specific module. 
   - Additionally, you'll find two folders: `learn` and `practice`.

2. Learn Folder:
   - The `learn` folder within each module contains Jupyter notebooks
     dedicated to explaining the topics covered in that module. 
   - These notebooks provide detailed explanations, code examples, and
     step-by-step demonstrations of key concepts. 
   - They serve as a valuable resource for hands-on learning and understanding
     the practical implementation of the module's topics. 

3. Practice Folder:
   - The `practice` folder within each module consists of notebooks that contain
     example problems related to the topics covered in that module. 
   - These notebooks offer practice exercises to solidify your understanding of
     the concepts and improve your problem-solving skills. 
   - You can work through these problems, apply the knowledge gained from the
     module, and strengthen your proficiency in Python programming. 


## Table of Contents

The course is divided into several modules, each covering a specific topic.
Here's a brief overview of what you'll learn in each module: 

**1. [Orientation](./01_orientation/learning_material.md):**
   - Learn how to access your workspace.
   - Understand the process of creating a Python file.
   - Discover how to run a Python file.

**2. [Basics](./02_basics/learning_material.md):**
   - Master the skill of assigning data to variables.
   - Explore techniques for printing text to the console.
   - Develop applications that accept user input and assign it to variables.

**3. [Branch Statements](./03_branch_statements/learning_material.md):**
   - Create logical expressions.
   - Utilize if statements to branch your code based on logical conditions.
   - Employ elif/else statements to complete your logical blocks.

**4. [Loops](./04_loops/learning_material.md):**
   - Learn to create for and while loops.
   - Utilize loops to create a Read Event Print Loop (REPL) for interactive programming.

**5. [Functions](./05_functions/learning_material.md):**
   - Understand functional parameters and their usage.
   - Document your functions effectively.
   - Explore function return values and default parameters.

**6. [Data Structures](./06_data_structures/learning_material.md):**
   - Work with lists, tuples, sets, and dictionaries effectively.

**7. [Object-Oriented Programming](./07_objects/learning_material.md):**
   - Grasp the concept of objects and their characteristics.
   - Differentiate between methods and functions.
   - Understand getters, setters, and local/instance variables.

**8. File I/O:**
   - Utilize context managers for efficient file handling.
   - Learn to read text files and work with JSON data in Python.

**9. Error Handling:**
   - Handle and raise errors appropriately.
   - Implement cleanup procedures using context managers.

**10. Web:**
   - Understand the basics of HTTP and web APIs.
   - Learn how to connect to a web API and retrieve data.

**11. Graphical User Interfaces:**
   - Get introduced to Tkinter for building GUI applications.
   - Explore event programming and functional programming concepts.
   - Create labels, buttons, and other interactive widgets.
   - Work with multiple windows in your applications.

**12. Open Source Code:**
   - Set up virtual environments for Python projects.
   - Utilize PIP for package management.
   - Install and use open-source packages effectively.

This repository is your comprehensive resource for learning Python in a
structured and engaging manner. Dive into the materials, follow the modules
sequentially, and enhance your Python skills. Happy coding! 